DOHA: Caster Semenya has responded to losing her legal challenge against new gender rules by entering the 800 metres in Friday’s Doha Diamond League meeting, while she hinted at ending her career in several cryptic tweets.

Semenya, the double Olympic champion at the distance, was added to the 800m start list on Thursday morning, a day after her appeal against a new rule regulating testosterone levels for women athletes was rejected by the Court for Arbitration of Sport (CAS).

Doha organisers said the South African runner had waited for the outcome of Wednesday’s CAS hearing in Lausanne, Switzerland, before deciding whether to run in the meeting that opens the Diamond League season.

Semenya had challenged the measures, introduced by the Inter­national Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF), that will force women with higher than normal male hormone levels — so-called “hyperandrogenic” athletes — to artificially lower the amount of testosterone in their bodies if they are to continue competing.

The rules will come into effect on May 8 and will apply to races over distances of 400m to the mile.

Semenya hinted at quitting the sport in a tweet Thursday, saying: “Knowing when to walk away is wisdom. Being able to is courage. Walking away with your head held high is dignity.”

In a later tweet, she said: “They laugh at me because I am different. I laugh at them because they’re all the same.”

Semenya was not present at a press conference in the Qatari capital to hear IAAF president Sebastian Coe defend the CAS decision, saying it helped to create a level playing field in the women’s events.

“I think this is pretty straightforward, and it’s very straightforward for any international federation in sport,” Coe said. “Athletics has two classifications: it has age, it has gender, we are fiercely protective about both and I am really grateful that the Court of Arbitration has upheld that principle.”

Coe said the IAAF will immediately apply its testosterone regulations to the 1,500 metres, ignoring advice from CAS.

The CAS said there was not enough evidence to show Caster Semenya and other female athletes with naturally high testosterone levels had a significant advantage in that event. It specifically said there was “a paucity of evidence” to apply the rules to the 1,500m and one-mile races. The CAS asked the IAAF to delay the rules in those events until it provides more evidence.

Asked if the IAAF would heed that advice from sport’s highest court, Coe gave a one-word answer: “No.”

Coe refused to take more questions, but the case is likely to have far-reaching consequences for women’s sport, and has split opinion around the globe.

Athletics South Africa likened the new IAAF regulations to apartheid, and both it and Semenya’s lawyers have said they could contest the CAS ruling dismissing her appeal against their introduction.

Coe’s response to the 1,500m question fuels Semenya’s argument that the IAAF is deliberately sidelining the 28-year-old star because of her success. The two-time Olympic and three-time world champion in the 800 recently put more focus on the 1,500 as an alternative. She won a bronze medal in the 1,500 at the 2017 world championships.

Barring further legal action, Semenya finds herself at a crossroads: Either she submits to the regulations or looks to compete in longer distances.

She claimed the 5,000 metres title at the South African Athletics Championships last week, an event not covered by the IAAF regulations, but in a modest time of 16:05.97, well below the qualifying standard for the world championships of 15:22.00.

This potential lifeline means Semenya may not abandon the 800m yet, though any advance to the Swiss Federal Tribunal could take months to reach a verdict and leave her career in limbo.

Published in Dawn, May 3rd, 2019


The National Museum of Qatar charts the peninsula’s history through 11 immersive galleries  Photo: Iwan Baan   
The new National Museum of Qatar “won’t be what people expect from a history museum”, promises Karen Exell, the British-born academic and Qatar Museums consultant who has worked on the project for the past four years. The long-awaited Doha museum will open its doors on 28 March.

Compared to the slow growth of most Western museum collections, its contents have undergone intense development in less than a decade. Designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel for an undisclosed sum, the National Museum will also be one of the world’s largest, spanning around 40,000 sq. m—roughly equivalent to the Vatican Museums.

The displays draw on consultations with Qatari residents and international experts, and include natural history specimens and archaeological artefacts gathered from new fieldwork. But material objects only “form one part of a multi-layered narrative that also uses image, film, sound, tactile elements and smells”, Exell says. The sequence of 11 immersive galleries ranges from the formation of the Qatar peninsula millions of years ago to the country’s very recent history.

The museum ultimately aims to “reflect the identity of the people and their values and traditions”

[Image: The National Museum of Qatar, built for an undisclosed sum, will be one of the world's largest museums]  
The building designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel is roughly the size of the Vatican Museums  Photo: Iwan Baan   
This includes the ongoing diplomatic crisis, which began in 2017 when Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Egypt cut ties with Qatar. Exell says: “Qatar has never shied away from talking about [the blockade]; it is part of the country’s recent history and has changed the configuration of the region.”

Ai Weiwei is among a number of contemporary artists and filmmakers who have been enlisted to create new works bringing Qatar’s history to life. His sculptural installation Fountain of Pearls reflects the dramatic decline of the pearl-diving industry from 1913 to 1939. In January 1940, oil was discovered in Dukhan on the west coast, transforming the tiny Gulf state into one of the richest economies in the world. A series of short films will be projected on the curved walls of the new building, including Abderrahmane Sissako’s black-and-white re-enactment of traditional Bedouin nomadic life in the desert and Jananne Al-Ani’s meditative view of the country’s archaeological sites and artefacts.

Museum officials said at a press briefing last December that the “most precious exhibit” is the restored Palace of Sheikh Abdullah, the site of the first National Museum, which opened in 1975 after Qatar gained independence and closed in 2005. The palace is enfolded within Nouvel’s extraordinary sprawling structure, and will be the culmination of the exhibition route.

[Image: Jean Nouvel's building enfolds the former site of the National Museum]  
Jean Nouvel's architecture surrounds the restored Palace of Sheikh Abdullah, the former site of Qatar's National Museum  Photo: Iwan Baan   
The museum ultimately aims to “reflect the identity of the people and their values and traditions”, says Exell, who is also conducting an ambitious government-backed audience research project for University College London’s branch in Qatar. The study will continue after the museum opens, with the results eventually due for publication.

Further details on the progress of other major museums planned for Doha are sketchy. A spokeswoman for Qatar Museums says that opening dates are yet to be confirmed for Herzog & de Meuron’s Orientalist Museum or the Art Mill, a vast 80,000 sq. m waterfront exhibition space designed by Alejandro Aravena’s firm Elemental. Key cultural projects are nonetheless expected to be completed in time for Qatar’s turn hosting the World Cup in 2022.



Skyline Automotive, a Jaidah Group company and the official distributor of Genesis in Qatar, has launched its flagship 2020 Genesis G90 at an exclusive unveiling ceremony in Msheireb Downtown Doha.  
During the event, which took place on May 22, Skyline Automotive and Jaidah Group also announced the launch of a new programme titled ‘The Path’, established in partnership with prominent media personality and entrepreneur, Mohamed Saadoun al-Kuwari. 
‘The Path’ comprises monthly episodes featuring some of the most successful Qatari members in various fields, including sports, arts, health and sciences, among others. The programme celebrates individual contributions to Qatar’s success story to inspire the country’s youth to follow suit.  
A preview of the first episode featuring Qatar’s national football team captain, Hassan al-Haydous, who also attended the G90 launch, was showcased during the event. Al-Haydous had led Qatar’s team to their biggest football win to date, bringing home the historic 2019 AFC Asian Cup trophy. 
Speaking in his welcoming remarks at the event, Jaidah Group executive director Mohamed Jaidah said: “It was a pleasure to hold the event at the iconic Baharat Square in Msheireb Downtown Doha, a symbol of Qatar’s sustainable future. The location of the event is a space that perfectly demonstrates what can be achieved when innovation comes to life, blending technology and creativity to create a unique environment in Qatar. 
“In a few short years, Genesis has become an icon of luxury, the Korean way. It has developed three separate models. And now we have unveiled the updated flagship Genesis G90 model with its futuristic design, which evolves the brand’s signature ‘Athletic Elegance’ design language. The updated flagship Genesis G90 adds to our portfolio, in line with our commitment to offer the people in Qatar the best products and customer service available.” 
Addressing al-Kuwari and al-Haydous, he added: “It is a pleasure to collaborate with Mohamed Sadoon al-Kuwari on ‘The Path’. The programme will no doubt inspire our young generation to pursue their dreams by shedding light on the journeys of our national success stories. I would also like to thank our national team captain, Hassan al-Haydous, for taking part in the first episode.”  
Al-Jaidah concluded his remarks by extending his gratitude to emerging Qatari artist, Bouthayna al-Muftah, for her artwork featuring the new Genesis G90, which was also displayed at the event.  
The 2020 G90 incorporates exterior and interior design changes, which “further enhances the sedan’s presence as the brand’s flagship vehicle”, Skyline Automotive has said in a statement. The new ‘Quad Lamp’ styling theme, featuring prominent horizontal architecture seen throughout the sedan, signals design cues that will be incorporated in all future Genesis models. 
The 2020 G90 introduces multiple technology enhancements and firsts for the Genesis brand. For example, the 12.3-inch central display is re-engineered to incorporate a new Graphic User Interface that features the signature Genesis black and copper colour scheme. Further, the car’s interior design includes a parallel layout and exquisite new details in the quilted Nappa leather seating and additional leather rapping on the centre console.  
The interior atmosphere of the new G90 also features an Active Noise Cancelation technology to reduce exterior noises and allow the driver to fully concentrate and embrace the experience of driving a Genesis vehicle.  
The 2020 G90 is available at the flagship Skyline Automotive showroom on Salwa Road.  
Episodes from ‘The Path’ programme can be viewed through: http://thepathqatar.com 



The Doha Metro Red Line South, which started its initial operations on May 8, will have new timings after Ramadan, it is learnt.

The service will most likely begin earlier than 8am, aimed at a large number of people who report to work at 7am, according to Qatar Rail's customer service hotline (105).

“The timings right now are for Ramadan but we will have a revised timetable after Ramadan and we will be announcing it in our social media channels so kindly follow us on Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook,” a staff member said.

The Red Line currently operates from 8am to 11pm and its first phase covers 13 of the 18 stations, including Al Qassar, DECC, QIC West Bay, Corniche, Al Bidda (Interchange station), Msheireb (Interchange station), Al Doha Al Jadeda, Umm Ghuwailina, Al Matar Al Qadeem, Oqba Ibn Nafie, Free Zone, Ras Bu Fontas and Al Wakra.

This line will soon open other stations such as Katara, Legtaifiya, Qatar University and Lusail. It operates from Sunday to Thursday and takes a break during the weekends “for the work required to open more stations and lines.”

The staff said that the other Doha Metro lines, as well as the remaining stations of the Red Line, will open in stages and will be fully operational by 2020.

Filipino expatriate Paul N told Gulf Times that the new timings will benefit a large number of employees working at busy areas such as West Bay, Msheireb Downtown Doha (Central Station/Interchange) and Old Airport Road, where a number of metro stations operate.

“I plan to leave home early (Al Hilal) so I can get a parking slot for my car somewhere near the Umm Ghuwailina station and take the train going to the DECC station,” he said, adding that taking a taxi for QR7 or QR8 would be another option.

“I want to avoid heavy traffic in the morning and I think many residents like me will be doing the same because it is really comfortable, affordable and hassle-free,” Paul added.

Passengers who do not want to drive or take a taxi can avail of the free Metrolink feeder bus service to reach the stations as well as to travel to nearby locations from the stations.

Passengers have also been advised to avoid blocking the doors as the train stops at a station and to properly use seats. Eating inside the train is prohibited. Passengers may drink from containers with sealable-tops.

In a series of posts on Twitter recently, Qatar Rail urged passengers not to stand on, sleep on, or block out seats on the Metro with bags.

The full Metro Network

The full metro network consists of three lines; Red, Green and Gold with 37 stations will be in service by 2020.

The Red Line, which runs for 40km from Al Wakra in the south to Lusail in the north, also connects Hamad International Airport at Terminal 1 to the centre of the city. It has 18 stations.

The Legtaifiya Station will also allow passengers to transfer over to the Lusail Tram, in addition to another interchange station between the metro and the tram called Lusail Central. The line offers a very convenient and reliable alternative to driving within the heart of the capital.

The Green Line runs east from Al Mansoura to Al Riffa in the west. As it passes through Education City, the line is also known as the Education Line. There are eleven stations along the line; aside from Education City, notable stops include Hamad Hospital, Al Shaqab, and the Qatar National Library.

The east-west Gold (Historic) Line extends from Ras Bu Abboud to Al Aziziyah. Eleven stations run along the Gold Line, with stops at the National Museum of Qatar, Souq Waqif, and Al Waab (near Villagio Mall).

Al Bidda station provides transfer facility between Red and Green Lines, while Msheireb station provides transfer facility among Red, Green and Gold Lines, according to https://www.qr.com.qa




The Holy month of Ramadan is about to get underway and Qatar, as well as the entire Middle East region, is high on excitement. Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar and observed by Muslims worldwide as a month of fasting. Muslims are required to refrain from consuming food, drinking liquids, smoking and sexual relations. In some interpretations, swearing is forbidden. Eid al Fitr marks the End of Ramadan.

Ramadan 2018 will start on Wednesday, May 16, and will end on Thursday, June 14. The non-Muslim expat community will find it quite a stretch and will need to remember important dos and don’ts. Non-Muslims, young children, the sick, people with mental health illnesses, travellers, the elderly and women who are menstruating, pregnant, breast-feeding or have recently given birth, do not have to fast.

Since Ramadan is just a little over two weeks away, the routines in Qatar will change drastically. From beautiful decorations to Iftar feasts and lesser working hours, Ramadan is taken quite religiously here. Muslims are expected to follow the creeds of Ramadan, both in public and private spaces. They keep their thoughts and actions pure and use the month-long period for spiritual reflection. They rein in unwanted sentiments, such as anger, greed, envy, lust. Gossiping is considered unhealthy. They also mull over their spiritual beliefs, and strengthen their devotion by reciting the Holy Quran during the day.

More than any other time, the month of Ramadan can be challenging for the expat population.

Expats, take note

[Image: Ramadan for expats in Qatar]  

If you are planning to relocate to Qatar during the month of Ramadan, quash it. Government agencies and authorities are largely preoccupied with celebrations and are generally slow-moving in performing their duties. Offices close early and those at work are unusually not focused. Shops shut down before time and streets are generally deserted during daytime. These can be nerve-racking and you will find yourself with little direction and help that is normally available. It is better to relocate well before or after Ramadan.

You must accept invitations for an Iftar from observing locals. Bring dates and gifts. It strengthens the bond and sends a respectful message. Introduce yourself to your neighbours and visit Qatari families and friends and embrace the community spirit. Hug more and more to build affinity.

Even if you are a non-Muslim, it is impolite to eat, drink or smoke in public during the hours of daylight. If you can, try and participate in charitable activities and volunteer services.

You might want to leave Qatar for sometime during this time not just because of the punishing heat, but also because you don’t feel obliged to observe the rituals and be a part of it. Don’t. This is your chance to show that you appreciate their culture and are keen to celebrate with them. It’s a sign of friendliness.

Dress appropriately and do not play loud music. It’s considered intrusive and disturbing to those who are fasting. Be modest and patient.

You will do well to steer clear of debates, arguments and fights since Ramadan is a time of peace and tranquility. Remember, you are not a natural in Qatar. You are seeking acceptance, and it comes only if you adhere to ground rules and show that you care. Play by the culture. Don’t go on kissing or cuddling your partner of the opposite sex in public. It’s especially offensive during the Holy month.

Try fasting yourself. It has health benefits, cleanses the soul, helps you understand your body better and helps you with self-control. Of course, in a way, it also makes you one of their own.

 



