N.J. Measles: If you were at Newark Airport on May 8, there’s a chance you were exposed to measles
Updated May 24, 2019;    Posted May 24, 2019 
[Image: Travelers passing through Newark International Airport. (Robert Sciarrino | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com) NJ Advance Media for NJ.com]  
NJ Advance Media for NJ.com

Travelers passing through Newark International Airport. (Robert Sciarrino | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com) NJ Advance Media for NJ.com

By Chris Sheldon | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com

Another traveler with measles may have infected people at Newark Liberty International Airport; the second such case reported by the New Jersey Department of Health this month.

The traveler, whose name was not released, arrived at Terminal B after a flight from Vienna, Austria on May 8 and was infectious that day, the department announced Friday.

People who were at the terminal that day between 2 and 6 p.m. may have been exposed to measles.

Anyone who was infected at the airport could develop symptoms as late as May 29 and anybody who feared they were exposed was asked to call their doctor before doing anything else.

Measles usually starts with symptoms that include fever, coughing and a rash that typically starts on the face.

[Image: false]  
This N.J. county could be next for a major measles outbreak, study says

A New Jersey county has been ranked as one of the most vulnerable in the U.S., partially because of its airport.

People can also get sick when they come in contact with mucus or saliva from an infected person and anyone who has not been vaccinated or has not had measles was at risk if they were exposed.

New Jersey residents who were potentially exposed on the infected man’s flights will be notified by their local health department, health officials said.

Anyone who has not been vaccinated or has not had measles is at risk of getting sick if they are exposed, the department said.

"Two doses of measles vaccine is more than 99 percent effective in preventing measles,” state epidemiologist Dr. Christina Tan said in a release.

Earlier this month, the department warned anybody that was at Terminal C on April 16 between 4 a.m. and 8 a.m. that they may have been exposed to measles by a traveler from Tel Aviv, Israel.



Newark Cop Faces Manslaughter Charges in Shooting
A Newark police officer is facing manslaughter charges after prosecutors say he shot and killed a man fleeing a traffic stop earlier this year. Checkey Beckford reports. WARNING: The footage is violent and some viewers may find it disturbing.

(Published Wednesday, May 22, 2019)
What to Know
A Newark cop will face criminal charges after a Jan. 28 traffic stop lead to a shooting that left one man dead, prosecutors announced
The Essex County Prosecutor's Office held a press conference Tuesday evening to announce that officer Jovanny Crespo was indicted
Two Newark men in the car, 35-year-old Andrew Dixon and 46-year-old Gregory Griffin, were shot. Griffin died the next day
WARNING: The footage is violent and some viewers may find it disturbing.

A Newark police officer is facing manslaughter charges as New Jersey prosecutors say he shot and killed a man fleeing a traffic stop earlier this year. 

The Essex County Prosecutor's Office announced Jovanny Crespo, 26, was indicted on multiple charges including aggravated manslaughter, aggravated assault and two each of counts of second degree possession of a weapon for an unlawful purpose and official misconduct.

The indictment came almost three months after Crespo was suspended without pay as an investigation was launched. 

Attorney information for the Crespo was not immediately clear. 

If convicted of all counts, Crespo could face life in prison.

 [Image: Top Tri-State News Photos]   Top Tri-State News Photos    

Although a detention hearing has not been scheduled, Crespo is likely to make his first court appearance Wednesday or Thursday.

The Essex County Prosecutor's Office presented the case to a grand jury following a review of the incident.

On Tuesday, prosecutors said Crespo acted in a "criminal" way and his actions were not in line with his training.

"He showed a reckless disregard for human life by shooting into a moving vehicle — a vehicle which had heavily tinted windows," Acting Essex County Prosecutor Stephens said.

In late January, prosecutors said a preliminary investigation indicated that Newark police tried to stop a vehicle but the driver didn't stop, and "shots were fired by one police officer at three separate locations."

Newark Police Shooting Leaves 2 Men in Critical Condition

Two Newark men in the car, 35-year-old Andrew Dixon and 46-year-old Gregory Griffin, were shot. Griffin died the next day.

A loaded semi-automatic handgun was found in the vehicle.

Prosecutors say that Crespo was not the original officer to make the traffic stop in the area of Clinton Avenue and Thomas Street, but rather a female officer. However, when Griffin allegedly fled the stop, she radioed that he was fleeing and that she saw a gun, which lead to a pursuit involving numerous police cars, prosecutors say.

Crespo fired shots at the fleeing car at three separate locations, according to prosecutors. The vehicle then stopped in the area of Irvine Turner Boulevard, near Kinney Street.

No police officers were injured, prosecutors said, adding no other police officers discharged their weapons.

According to prosecutors, this is the first fatal police-involved shooting to result in an indictment in Essex County in recent memory.

Prosecutors released body camera (which can be seen below) and dash camera video, as well as dispatch audio related to the police chase and shooting.

In Crespo's body camera video footage, you can hear someone, presumambly Crespo, telling the other officer in the police car at one point, "I think I shot him. I seen a gun. He pointed a gun at me" once he enters the car after firing at the vehicle involved in the pursuit.

Body Cam Captures NJ Cop Firing on Car Multiple Times   [Image: Body Cam Captures NJ Cop Firing on Car Multiple Times]   
WARNING: The footage is violent and some viewers may find it disturbing. A Newark police officer is facing manslaughter charges after prosecutors say he shot and killed a man fleeing a traffic stop earlier this year. The Essex County Prosecutor's Office announced Jovanny Crespo, 26, was indicted on multiple charges including aggravated manslaughter, aggravated assault and two each of counts of second degree possession of a weapon for an unlawful purpose and official misconduct. Attorney information for the Crespo was not immediately clear. Although a detention hearing has not been scheduled, Crespo is likely to make his first court appearance Wednesday or Thursday.

(Published Tuesday, May 21, 2019) 

Body camera video shows Crespo fired at the car on three different occassions — the last almost at point blank range. 

Later on the body camera video, after the pursuit, Crespo tells other police officers that he shot both of the men.

Following the indictment, Newark Mayor Ras J. Baraka issued a statement that said: “The indictment of Newark Police Officer Jovanny Crespo is a sad day for our city and our police department, and the families of the two victims. We are under a consent decree and this shows that when police officers break the law, they will be held to the same standards as all others, particularly at a time when justice in incidents involving the police is not happening around the country."

Baraka's statement goes on to say that the indictment "also shows how important it is that the police are equipped with body cameras and that they use them."

He also said that the indictment is "evidence of the transparency we have worked to establish in Newark and is critical to continuing to build trust between our police and the community.”

Get the latest from NBC 4 New York anywhere, anytime



As part of a long-planned district overhaul, Superintendent Roger León is cutting the positions held by dozens of  vice principals and other administrators, while also bringing back a school management role that his predecessor eliminated. He is also hiring directors to lead more than a dozen central-office departments, including math, social studies, and bilingual education. 

At the same time, hundreds of school employees will see their official job titles change, which could spell pay cuts for some workers, their union warned. Those changes are the result of a 2017 ruling by the state’s Civil Service Commission, which found that previous superintendents had placed 485 employees in non-unionized positions without the agency’s approval. 

Now that their titles are shifting, some of the employees will have to reapply for their jobs. 

“We can migrate them in there, but they still have to apply officially,” León said at a school board meeting Saturday where he detailed the staffing changes. “Since this is a new title, people don’t have a right to it.” 

León added that “good staff” would be retained — but warned that some employees might not make the cut. 

“I want the people who aren’t good to go — we don’t need people that are going to delay us,” he said. “This school district, we need people who are going to run forward.” 

Chalkbeat Newark
Start your week strong with the most important education news in Newark

“Chalkbeat gives you an authoritative, at-a-glance overview of major education news and topics, both local and national.” — Megan M.

Key to León’s top-to-bottom reorganization of the district is reversing changes made by his two immediate predecessors, Cami Anderson and Christopher Cerf, state-appointed superintendents who sought to streamline the district’s bureaucracy and give school-level leaders more decision-making power. The prior superintendents pursued those ends by undermining local labor unions and recruiting some school and district leaders with limited classroom experience — methods that rankled León, a career educator whom the local school board named superintendent last year. 

“If I have a certificate, people working below me must also have certificates,” León said Saturday, referring to teaching certifications. He added: “This whole autonomy concept went buck wild — and it went buck wild in the central office too.” 

León’s overhaul will shake up the corps of administrators who help run the district’s more than 60 schools. 

He is reducing the number of vice principals and eliminating the position of chief innovation officer in schools, an Anderson creation that critics considered a tactic to install relatively inexperienced educators as school administrators. At the same time, he is restoring the department chairperson position in schools,  which Anderson cut , whose job is to oversee teachers of specific subjects like English and math. 

Overall, the cuts will remove 66 administrative positions, saving the district more than $7 million, León said. As the district begins layoffs, more than 100 current administrators will be spared because they have earned tenure.  

“This is a scary problem because some of those 101 people may not be worthy of being saved, but they’re protected by the law,” León told the board. 

In that regard, he said, he agrees with one of the justifications that Anderson and Cerf gave for their controversial staffing policies — that bureaucracy and union rules can sometimes protect incompetence. 

“This is Cami’s argument, and I agreed with her,” León said. “It’s not fair that someone who isn’t good stays in a position because they have more years of experience than somebody who is better.” 

One chief innovation officer who has worked in Newark schools for nine years told Chalkbeat that the district recently sent her a termination letter that provided no explanation for her removal. In her role, she helped evaluate and coach teachers, plan staff trainings, and organize workshops for parents, among other duties, said the employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because she is considering appealing her dismissal.  

“To be discarded this way, it’s humiliating,” she said. “I have lost all respect for this district.” 

Some vice principals who are losing their positions will apply for one of the 55 new department chair spots, which could shrink their paychecks by thousands of dollars, one principal said. The principal, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said León’s downsizing makes sense: Vice principals proliferated under Anderson, yet many held specialized roles that were not much different than department chairs. 

“Now some people are going to lose money, but they probably shouldn’t have been vice principals,” the school leader said. “There’s no other way to fix that than demoting them.” 

The nearly 500 staffers affected by the title change include school operations managers and community engagement specialists — roles Anderson established that were originally not affiliated with any union. Union leaders, who  criticized the move  as a ploy to weaken organized labor and circumvent seniority rules, filed grievances with the Civil Service Commission. 

The employees eventually joined the Newark Teachers Union, but the district did not make changes required by the commission until now, said Newark Teachers Union President John Abeigon. As the district reclassifies and eliminates certain job titles, it will match employees with the new positions based on their years of experience in the system, said Abeigon, whose union negotiated the salaries of the new roles with the district. 

“We’re going to monitor each and every decision they make,” he said, referring to district officials. “If we come across a decision that has been reached in violation of civil service or seniority rules, we’ll definitely bring it to the board’s attention.” 

In the coming weeks, León also plans to hire several top officials, including a head of teaching and learning and a new  safety director .  

He also is looking for directors to oversee 15 academic departments. Some of the departments are currently run by special assistants who lack the proper qualifications, León told the board. His new hires, which the board must approve, will be required to hold teaching certifications, he added. 

“The director is supposed to be able to teach the content that they’re directing over,” León said. “These people must be my very, very best.” 




NEWARK, New Jersey (WABC) -- A New Jersey man who threatened to shoot everyone at a pro-Israel rally and who said he wanted to "bomb Trump Tower" was arrested Wednesday on charges of trying to provide support to Hamas.

Jonathan Xie, 20, of Basking Ridge, NJ, appeared in federal court in Newark later in the day to face charges that include attempting to provide material support to a designated terrorist organization, making false statements and transmitting a threat in interstate commerce

According to court records, Xie thought about joining the Army, quoting him as saying he wanted "to learn how to kill... So I can use that knowledge."

He allegedly appeared in an Instagram Live video last month in which he stated he was against Zionism and the neo-liberal establishment. In the same video he displayed a Hamas flag, retrieved a handgun and stated "I'm gonna go to the (expletive) pro-Israel march and I'm going to shoot everybody."
EMBED More News Videos
Jim Dolan has the latest on the arrest of a man who allegedly wanted to bomb Trump Tower.



In another Instagram post court records quoted Xie as saying "I want to shoot the pro-Israel demonstrators...you can get a gun and shoot your way through or use a vehicle and ram people... all you need is a gun or a vehicle to go on a rampage..."

Xie's social media accounts were loaded with terror propaganda, the FBI said, and declarations of support for Bashar al Assad, Saddam Hussein and North Korea.

Around April 20, 2019, FBI surveillance observed Xie outside of the Trump Tower building in New York City.

Shortly thereafter, according to Instagram records, Xie posted two photos to his Instagram account: One with the words "I want to bomb Trump Tower" imposed over the building image and the other with the words "(S)hould I bomb Trump Tower," a "Yes No" poll, and an emoji of a bomb imposed over the Trump Tower building image.

Xie subsequently posted on Instagram, "Okay, so I went to NYC today and passed by Trump Tower and then I started laughing hysterically . . . I forgot to visit the Israeli embassy in NYC . . .i want to bomb this place along with Trump Tower."

Authorities raided Xie's home Wednesday, to see how much they could learn about his possible terrorist ambitions.

"At any time was there a threat to New York City from this case, based on the briefings we're receiving in real time, I would say the proper controlling features were in place to be able to say no," said NYPD Deputy Commissioner for Intelligence and Counterterrorism John Miller




Court rejects program for woman who abandoned starving cats
By DAVID PORTER May 20, 2019 
NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — A woman whose home was populated by starving cats who had eaten some of their own to survive will have to go back to court to see if she can avoid a trial and possible jail time.

A New Jersey state appeals court ruled Monday that a judge erred last year when he allowed Jill Petruska to enter a pretrial intervention program that would have allowed her to eventually clear her record if she met certain conditions.

Investigators removed 13 live cats from Petruska’s Nutley apartment in 2016 and estimated that 12 others had died, though they said getting an accurate number was difficult because animal parts were strewn around. Nutley is about 8 miles (12 kilometers) from Newark.

Petruska said she’d been away and caring for a sick relative but had stopped by periodically to care for the cats. She was charged with 26 counts of animal cruelty. A phone message was left Monday for her attorney.

According to Monday’s court filing, the stench from the carcasses and cat feces was so strong that police had to use the fire department’s ventilation equipment and wear hazardous materials suits to enter the apartment.

A veterinarian testified to a grand jury that some of the cats had given birth in the apartment and eaten their offspring to survive, the court filing said.

In early 2018, despite opposition from prosecutors, a judge granted Petruska’s request for admission into a pretrial program that forbade her from owning or caring for animals for two years and required her to perform 200 hours of community service and undergo counseling.

Monday’s ruling disagreed with how prosecutors applied state guidelines to Petruska’s request, but still sent the case back to be heard by a different judge. Specifically, it cited the original judge’s refusal to look at photographs from the apartment showing the decomposed animals.

“These conditions surely did not evolve over a short period of time and belied defendant’s claim to have periodically stopped by the apartment to feed the cats or to have arranged for someone else to take care of the cats,” the appeals court wrote.

