North Korean missile test violated UN resolution, Bolton says
Published Fri, May 24 2019   10:30 PM EDT Updated Fri, May 24 2019   11:29 PM EDT
Key Points
Earlier this month, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un oversaw the first flight of a previously untested weapon — a relatively small, fast missile experts believe will be easier to hide, launch, and maneuver in flight.
U.S. President Donald Trump's national security advisor, John Bolton, said Saturday there was "no doubt" that violated United Nations resolutions.
 
National Security Adviser John Bolton.
Nicholas Kamm | AFP | Getty Images
U.S. National Security Advisor John Bolton said on Saturday North Korea's recent missile launches violated a U.N. Security Council resolution and urged leader Kim Jong Un to return to denuclearization talks.

It was the first time a senior U.S. official has described the tests as a violation of U.N. resolutions aimed at halting North Korea's nuclear and missile programs and came ahead of a four-day visit to Japan by U.S. President Donald Trump who arrives later in the day.

"The U.N. resolution prohibits the launch of any ballistic missiles," Bolton said at a press roundtable. North Korea's test firings included short range ballistic missiles and so there was "no doubt" it was a violation, he added.

Earlier this month, Kim Jong Un oversaw the first flight of a previously untested weapon — a relatively small, fast missile experts believe will be easier to hide, launch and maneuver in flight.

Bolton said that the United States was still open to talks with Kim's regime but that it had not changed its position from the one outlined at the last summit between the United States and North Korea in Hanoi.

"Trump has held the door open for Kim, the next step is for Kim to walk through it," he said.

Bolton also urged Kim to agree to a meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, which he said could help restart dialogue on North Korea's weapons programs.

An Abe Kim summit "could be substantive assistance to that," he said.

Trump, who will play golf with Abe on Sunday before watching Sumo wrestling, is expected to discuss topics ranging from North Korea to China and two-way trade when they sit down for a summit on Monday.

The two leaders will also discuss rising tensions with Iran, Bolton said. Abe is considering a visit to Iran as early as mid-June, public broadcaster NHK said on Friday, the first such trip in four decades.

Washington has said it will stop waivers for countries buying Iranian oil and has designated Iran's elite Revolutionary Guard Corps as a foreign terrorist organisation.

The United State is also deploying a carrier strike group and bombers to the Middle East in response to what the Trump administration described as troubling "indications and warnings" from Iran.

Bolton, who has spearheaded an increasingly hawkish U.S. policy on Iran, described recent attacks on tankers off the United Arab Emirates and a pipeline pumping station in Saudi Arabia, as well as a rocket attack in Baghdad's Green Zone in Iraq, as "manifestations of concern."

The United States has "deep and serious" intelligence on the threat posed by Iran, said Bolton, who declined to provide details.




North Korea’s minister of railways Jang Hyuk has departed Pyongyang bound for Tashkent, Uzbekistan, the Russian embassy in Pyongyang revealed in a post on its Facebook  page on Monday.

He is expected to take part in an annual ministerial meeting of the Organization for Cooperation of Railways (OSJD) from June 5-7.

Jang met with Russian ambassador to the DPRK Alexander Matsegora and an unnamed advisor from the Chinese embassy to the DPRK ahead of his departure, the embassy said, in talks which saw the two discuss “the current issues of Russian-Korean cooperation in the field of transport.”

The minister is set to travel to Uzbekistan via Beijing and Moscow, it added, for a conference which will see counterparts from the 28 other OSJD member states hold their 47th meeting.

South Korea was granted membership to the organization — which seeks to enhance cooperation in international rail infrastructure — in 2018, amid warming ties with the North, which had long opposed Seoul’s admission.

It remains unclear whether any of Jang’s South Korean counterparts will be attending next week’s conference, or if the two Koreas will use it as an opportunity for talks.

Requests for comment from NK News to Seoul’s Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport (MOLIT) on Monday evening went unanswered.
Jang’s overseas trip is also likely to overlap with a meeting in the Russian capital expected this week between officials from the two countries’ ruling parties.

That meeting, first announced by United Russia’s Andrei Klimov last week, appears to now be taking place under an expanded format, with the Russian embassy on Monday saying it will also see officials from the DPRK’s Pyongyang Municipal Committee of the Workers’ Party of Korea meet with local counterparts.

Ambassador Matsegora was reported to have met with the chairman of that organization, Kim Nung O, who told Russian officials that he was “looking forward to a conversation” with Moscow Mayor Sergey Sobyanin.

Kim, the embassy said, “is interested in the experience of our [city],” and is “in turn ready to tell about what has already been done, and what is still planned to do in Pyongyang in the coming years.”

Ambassador Matsegora also met with chairman of the Pyongyang Municipal Committee of the Workers’ Party of Korea Kim Nung O (right) on Monday | Photo: Russian embassy DPRK

The meetings come amid a flurry of DPRK-Russian exchanges in recent weeks on the heels of April’s summit in Vladivostok between President Vladimir Putin and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

The head of Russia’s Ministry for the Development of the Far East (MDFE) Alexander Kozlov is set to visit Pyongyang soon to continue discussions on a number of joint economic projects with North Korea.

“A lot of work remains to be done with Russian Railways, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Economy,” Kozlov said on the Ministr Live Youtube channel last week, when asked what to expect from that visit.

Russia’s TASS News Agency reported last week that the trip will take place from June 6-8, citing a source in the DPRK capital.




TOKYO: After formal meetings with Japanese leaders on Monday (May 27), President Donald Trump will sit down with relatives of civilians kidnapped decades ago by North Korean spies.

Japan suspects dozens of people who are still missing were abducted by North Korean agents in the 1970s and 1980s to train their own spies in the Japanese language and culture.

Advertisement 
Advertisement 
The abductions have become an emotional symbol of the enmity between Tokyo and Pyongyang, and Japan has pressed Trump to seek answers on the fate of the missing during his talks with North Korea.

HOW MANY TAKEN?

In 2002, North Korea admitted to kidnapping 13 Japanese civilians, but the government in Tokyo believes at least 17 were taken to train Pyongyang's agents.

A month later, five were allowed to return to Japan. Pyongyang insists the other eight are dead but has not produced cast-iron evidence.

Advertisement 
Advertisement 
One of those said to have died was Megumi Yokota, kidnapped on her way home from school in 1977 aged only 13 - the youngest among the 17 officially listed as abductees by the Japanese government.

In 2004, North Korea handed over cremated remains it claimed were Yokota's. However, Tokyo said DNA tests conducted in Japan proved the claim to be untrue.

[Image: Japanese student Megumi Yokota, 13, was kidnapped by North Korea in 1977 but officials said in 2002]   Japanese student Megumi Yokota, 13, was kidnapped by North Korea in 1977 but officials said in 2002 she had died, a claim not believed by her parents. (File photo: AFP)

There are strong suspicions in Japan that dozens of other citizens were also snatched by Pyongyang.

Japanese police say there are 800 missing people for whom the possibility of being kidnapped by the hermit state cannot be ruled out.

JUST JAPANESE?

Japan is far from being the only country affected by North Korean abductions.

A 2014 UN report on human rights in North Korea estimated that 200,000 people from other countries have been abducted over the decades.

Most of them were South Koreans left stranded after the 1950-1953 Korean War, but hundreds of others from around the world - including women from Lebanon, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Romania and France - were taken or disappeared while visiting the country between the 1960s and 1980s, the report said.

More recently, North Korea abducted a number of its own nationals and South Koreans from China, it said.

POSSIBLE RESOLUTION?

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe says resolving the issue of Pyongyang's abduction of Japanese citizens is a top priority and even suggested meeting North Korea's Kim Jung Un for direct talks to resolve the situation.

He has regularly raised the issue with Trump and the meeting is likely aimed at keeping the plight of the abductees front and centre in the US president's mind as he weighs the next steps in talks with Pyongyang.

[Image: Japan's leader Shinzo Abe wants US President Donald Trump to keep the issue of abductees front]   Japan's leader Shinzo Abe wants US President Donald Trump to keep the issue of abductees front and centre of his talks with North Korea's Kim Jong Un. (File photo: AFP/KCNA)

Yokota's parents, Shigeru and Sakie, who are in their eighties, also met President Barack Obama when he visited Japan in 2014.

Under an agreement brokered in Stockholm in May 2014, North Korea undertook to reinvestigate all abductions of Japanese citizens in what appeared to be a significant breakthrough on an issue that has long hampered Tokyo's relations with Pyongyang.

But there has been almost no progress since then, and failed talks between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Hanoi have sparked a fresh spike in tensions.

Still, Trump sounded a conciliatory note towards Pyongyang on Monday, saying he felt "lots of good things will come with North Korea".




TOKYO: US President Donald Trump pressed Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Monday (May 27) to even out a trade imbalance with the United States and said he was happy with how things were going with North Korea but was in no rush to reach a peace deal.

Trump said at a news conference with Abe after their summit that his goal was to remove trade barriers to put US exports on a fair footing in Japan. He said he hoped to have more to announce on trade very soon and said the two had agreed to expand cooperation in human space exploration.

Advertisement 
Advertisement 
READ: Japan to limit foreign ownership of firms in its IT, telecom sectorsREAD: Trump becomes first foreign leader to meet Japan's new emperor
"We have an unbelievably large imbalance, as you know, trade imbalance with Japan for many, many years, Japan having the big advantage," Trump said.

"They are brilliant business people, brilliant negotiators, and put us in a very tough spot. But I think we will have a deal with Japan," he added.

Advertisement 
Advertisement 
Abe, for his part, said the two leaders had agreed to speed up two-way trade talks, but dodged a question about timing.

Trump, who is on a four-day state visit to Japan meant to showcase the alliance between the allies, said on Twitter on Sunday that he expected big moves on trade would wait until after Japan's upper house election in July.

"Trade-wise, I think we'll be announcing some things, probably in August, that will be very good for both countries," Trump said on Monday at the start of the talks. "We'll get the balance of trade, I think, straightened out rapidly."

[Image: U.S. President Donald Trump meets with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Akasaka Palace, Japane]   US President Donald Trump meets with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Akasaka Palace, Japanese state guest house in Tokyo, May 27, 2019. (Photo: Reuters/Eugene Hoshiko)


Abe, who has developed close ties with Trump since the US leader came to office, stressed the closeness of ties.

"This visit of President Trump and Madame Trump is a golden opportunity to clearly show the unshakable bond to the whole world and inside Japan as well," Abe told the news conference.

READ: Japan PM Abe says determined to show world strong alliance with USREAD: 'Great respect' between US and North Korea: Trump 
Earlier, Trump was greeted by Emperor Naruhito and his Harvard-educated wife at the imperial palace in Tokyo in a formal welcome ceremony broadcast live on national television.

Trump is the first foreign dignitary to be received by the monarch since the latter inherited the throne after his father, Akihito, stepped down on April 30 in the first abdication by a Japanese emperor in two centuries.

Trump has made clear he was pleased to have the honour of the first reception with the emperor, who is hosting a state dinner for the U.S. leader and his wife on Monday.

On Sunday, Trump spent what he said was "an incredible evening" watching the Japanese national sport of sumo - where nearly naked wrestlers grapple on a raised sand ring - after he and Abe had bonded over hamburgers and golf.

READ: After sumo and golf, Trump and Abe get down to business
FRIENDSHIP AND FRICTION

Abe and Trump have put on a show of friendship but have policy disagreements over trade and North Korea.

Trump has threatened to target Japanese automakers with high tariffs.

He has also spearheaded an expensive trade dispute with China. That trade war between the world's two largest economies has hurt markets worldwide and confounded U.S. allies, including Japan and the European Union, although those allies share US concerns about Chinese practices.

Trump told the news conference that Washington was not ready to make a deal with Beijing but he expected on in the future.

"I believe that we will have a very good deal with China sometime in the future. Because I don't believe that China can continue to pay these really hundreds of billions of dollars in tariffs," he said.

"You know businesses are leaving China, by the hundreds, by the thousands, and going into areas that are not tariffed."



Trump also expressed optimism over prospects for North Korea to denuclearise, and repeated that he was not bothered by its recent missile launch.

Trump said he agreed with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un that former US Vice President Joe Biden, now campaigning to become the Democratic Party candidate for the 2020 U.S. presidential election, was a "low IQ individual".

"My people think it could have been a violation, as you know. I view it differently - I view it as a man, perhaps he wants to get attention. Perhaps not. Who knows? It doesn't matter. All I know is that there have been no nuclear tests, no ballistic missiles going out, no long-range missiles going out. And I think that someday we'll have a deal," Trump said.

"I'm not in a rush," he added.

Abe said he supported Trump's approach to Kim, but repeated Tokyo's stance that recent short-range missile tests violated UN Security Council resolutions.

The two leaders also discussed Iran. Japanese media have said Abe was considering a trip there next month, to try to soothe rising tension between Iran and the United States.

Also on Monday, Trump met families of Japanese citizens kidnapped by North Korea and told the relatives that he would work with Abe to bring the abductees home.

In 2002, North Korea admitted its agents had kidnapped 13 Japanese decades ago. Japan says 17 of its citizens were abducted, five of whom were repatriated. North Korea has said eight are dead and that another four never entered the country.

Abe has vowed not to rest until all the abductees come home.





