Backers of the ban say facial recognition threatens civil liberties. Photograph: Alamy
San Francisco supervisors have voted to make the city the first in the United States to ban police and other government agencies from using facial recognition technology.

Supervisors voted eight to one in favor of the “Stop Secret Surveillance Ordinance”, which will also strengthen existing oversight measures and will require city agencies to disclose current inventories of surveillance technology.

Supervisor Aaron Peskin, who championed the legislation, said: “This is really about saying: ‘We can have security without being a security state. We can have good policing without being a police state.’ And part of that is building trust with the community based on good community information, not on Big Brother technology.”

Two supervisors were absent for Tuesday’s vote. The board of supervisors is expected to vote on the new rules a second time next week, when they are expected to pass again.

Critics argued that police need all the help they can get, especially in a city with high rates of property crime. That people expect privacy in public space is unreasonable given the proliferation of cellphones and surveillance cameras, said Meredith Serra, a member of a resident public safety group Stop Crime SF.

San Francisco could ban government agencies from using facial recognition technology
 
Read more
But those who support the ban say facial recognition technology is flawed and a serious threat to civil liberties.

Matt Cagle, a technology and civil liberties attorney at the ACLU of Northern California, said the legislation was a positive step towards slowing the rise of technologies that may infringe on the rights of people of color and immigrants. “Face surveillance won’t make us safer, but it will make us less free,” Cagle told the Guardian after the proposal passed a committee vote last week.

The ordinance applies to a wider range of technology, including automated license plate reading and gunshot-detection tools. It also expands a 2018 law requiring the San Francisco public transportation system Bart to outline how it surveils passengers.

Speaking to the Guardian last week, Peskin said the new regulations were designed to address concerns about the accuracy of technology and put a stop to creeping surveillance culture.

He said: “We are all for good community policing but we don’t want to live in a police state. At the end of the day it’s not just about a flawed technology. It’s about the invasive surveillance of the public commons.”





 Jeff Adachi enters a courtroom in San Francisco, in 2012. Photograph: Jeff Chiu/AP
A freelance journalist is vowing to protect his source after San Francisco police raided his home and office while keeping him handcuffed for several hours as part of a criminal investigation.

'A model for America': the criminal justice reformer who inspired a generation
 
Read more
Bryan Carmody told the Los Angeles Times officers banged on his door on Friday and confiscated dozens of personal items, including notebooks and his cellphone, computer, hard drives and cameras. A judge signed off on search warrants which stated officers were investigating “stolen or embezzled” property, the newspaper reported.

Authorities said the raid came during an ongoing investigation into who leaked a confidential police report about the death on 22 February of San Francisco public defender Jeff Adachi.

Carmody said investigators had asked him a few weeks earlier to identify the source that gave him the report. The reporter said he politely declined.

While he was shackled, officers got a second warrant to search his newsroom, where they seized a thumb drive, CDs and, inside a safe, the leaked police report, the Times said.

Carmody, 49, said he has not shared the name of his source with anyone and no markings on the document could be traced to the person who provided it. To the reporter and his attorney, the raid was an invasion into the work of a professional reporter.

“It’s designed to intimidate,” said Carmody’s lawyer, Thomas Burke. “It’s essentially the confiscation of a newsroom.”

The incident provided a new twist in the story of the unexpected death of Adachi, who left behind a legacy of championing civil rights. Initial reports said the 59-year-old elected official had been traveling when he suddenly had a heart attack.

Carmody said that while trying to figure out exactly where Adachi died, salacious details began emerging that were difficult to confirm.

“There were leaks happening all over the place,” he recalled. He ultimately obtained an incident report that detailed Adachi’s final moments.

The San Francisco Chronicle also obtained a copy of the report, but not from Carmody. The document, as reported by KGO-TV in San Francisco, said that shortly before his death Adachi had dinner with a woman named “Caterina” who was not his wife, then returned to an apartment he arranged to use for the weekend.

The woman called 911 and Adachi was taken to hospital, where he died. Later that night, officers went to the apartment and found “alcohol, cannabis-infused gummies and syringes believed to have been used by the paramedics”, the Chronicle reported. Photos of the apartment were circulated online by KTVU-TV and other outlets. Carmody told the Chronicle he sold his news package on Adachi to three TV stations.

City officials criticized police for allowing the details of a confidential report to end up in the headlines. The police launched an internal investigation into the report’s leaking, which led to the raid at Carmody’s home.

“The citizens and leaders of the city of San Francisco have demanded a complete and thorough investigation into this leak, and this action represents a step in the process of investigating a potential case of obstruction of justice along with the illegal distribution of confidential police material,” police spokesman David Stevenson said in a statement to the Times.

The affidavits used to search Carmody’s home were filed under seal, so it is unclear what investigators told the judge to secure the warrants. Carmody is insisting on protecting his source’s identity. And he swears he never paid the person for the police report.

“No,” he told the Times. “Not even a cup of coffee.”





 A man walks by a homeless woman on the sidewalk, in the Tenderloin District of San Francisco, California, on 14 June 2016. Photograph: Gabrielle Lurie/The Guardian
San Francisco saw a 17% increase in its homeless population since its last homeless count, with numbers rising to levels that haven’t been recorded on these streets in 17 years.

The increase comes amid an IPO boom in a tech industry that has the city’s rich growing richer, the wealth disparities starker and the cost of living more unaffordable than ever.

“The cost of housing hasn’t gone down, so why does anyone expect that the amount of people experiencing homelessness would go down?” said Kelley Cutler, the human rights organizer for the Coalition on Homelessness.

The city released a preliminary summary of its one-night street count on Thursday, tallying the number of homeless people at 8,011. The uptick, according to the mayor’s office, came primarily from people living in their cars, who totaled 68% of those counted.

San Francisco conducts its homeless count every two years, as is required by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development. The number is believed to be a low estimate, as federal guidelines for homelessness are broader than the city’s definitions, and the city will release a more accurate count in July. In 2017, the count at this time was 6,858 while the later tally came out to 7,499.

San Francisco approves homeless shelter despite backlash from wealthy residents
 
Read more
This year’s count showed a 14% drop in veteran homelessness and a 10% drop in youth homelessness.

“The initial results of this count show we have more to do to provide more shelter, more exits from homelessness, and to prevent people from becoming homeless in the first place,” the San Francisco mayor, London Breed, said in a statement. “The results around our work focusing on youth and veteran homelessness are evidence that when we target our investments, we can make a difference for those living on our streets. As I have been saying for years, we desperately need to build more housing, especially badly needed affordable housing and supportive housing, because we know that high housing costs contribute to an increase in homelessness.

“We know that homelessness is not just an issue in San Francisco, as other counties in the Bay Area and across the state are experiencing similar circumstances, and we all need to work together on regional and statewide solutions to address this crisis.”

In November, the city passed a measure that will implement an average 0.5% gross receipts tax for companies with revenues over $50m. The measure was hotly contested within the tech industry, with tech billionaires publicly clashing over the industry’s role in creating the economic disparities driving the homeless crisis.

Proposition C is expected to raise an estimated $250m-$300m in additional revenue for homeless services, but is currently tied up in the courts.

The city has promised to increase the number of shelter beds by 1,000, but one proposed homeless shelter, approved by authorities in the city’s waterfront neighborhood, will also be tied up in legal disputes by the neighborhood residents who raised more than $101,000 in a crowdfunding campaign to pay for an attorney to fight the construction of the Navigation Center.








The report shows rapid growth of the US tech sector is helping San Francisco beat traditional capital cities for incomes. Photograph: Eric Risberg/AP
Stock market gadflies were predicting a wealth boom to strike San Francisco this year, with several big-name tech companies set to enter the public market. But according to Deutsche Bank, the city is already there.

San Francisco beat out all other world cities for having the highest salaries and most disposable income, according to Deutsche Bank’s “Mapping the World’s Prices 2019” survey – and that’s even after taking into account the notoriously high rent.

The city climbed a “stunning” seven places for salary and 21 places for disposable income over the past five years, the report states. Deutsche Bank calculated a typical monthly salary for San Franciscans based on net taxes and found it to be about $6,500 in 2019 – a 31% jump from the $5,000 calculated the year before, and an 88% change over the past five years.

Researchers calculated that an average two-salary household in the city would be left each month with about $4,700 after rent, a 50% jump from the year before, and a 143% jump over the past five years.

“Overall, this shows that the rapid growth of the US tech sector is helping [San Francisco] beat traditional capital cities for incomes,” the report states.

San Francisco knocked Zurich out for the No 1 spot, though Switzerland’s biggest city still leads for quality of life.

Tuesday’s report reflects the area’s rising wealth amid the latest tech boom, but it says little about rising inequality in the area. San Francisco saw a 17% increase in its homeless population since its last count, with numbers rising to levels that have not been recorded in 17 years.

The increase in the homeless population comes as a gross receipts tax designed to create funds for homeless services from companies with revenues over $50m is being contested in court, and as residents in a wealthy waterfront neighborhood raised more than $101,000 in a crowdfunding campaign to pay for an attorney to fight the construction of a nearby homeless shelter.







This is a towering archive find to mark 82 years since Golden Gate Bridge’s opening.

Every year in May, I flip through The Chronicle’s vast collection of photo negatives looking for undiscovered images of Greatest Bridge Ever Built, hoping to find something special to mark the anniversary. This year, I found treasures of the ceremonies — both opening days — including what may be our earliest “Golden Gate Bridge in the fog” photo. Several of the negatives were somewhat damaged, but by scanning them into our digital archive, we’ve saved them for posterity.

At the time of its construction, the Golden Gate Bridge was the largest single span bridge ever constructed — 80,000 miles of steel cable on the bridge and the two bridge towers rising 746 feet. “These towers are the highest structures in America outside of Manhattan island,” the May 27, 1937, Chronicle noted when the bridge opened.

Dig deep into Chronicle Vault
Like what you’re reading? Subscribe to the Chronicle Vault newsletter, and get classic archive stories in your in-box twice a week.

Read hundreds of historical stories, see thousands of archive photos and sort through 154 years of classic Chronicle front pages at SFChronicle.com/vault.

Read More
Excitement was so high for the bridge that the Golden Gate Fiesta included nine days of celebrations, and not one opening day but two. The first opening day, May 27, 1937, was limited to pedestrians.

The organizing committee estimated that 100,000 people would take advantage of the opportunity to stroll across the bridge without interference from cars, but they seriously underestimated the appeal. From 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. that day, more than 200,000 flocked to the bridge for a chance to say they walked across.

The first person to officially cross the bridge was Donald Bryant, a San Francisco Junior College track team member, who said he finished first by 100 yards. Unfortunately, the Chronicle ran someone else’s photo next to details of Bryant’s accomplishment.

The paper made it up to him. During 20th anniversary coverage in 1957, The Chronicle ran a letter from Bryant, offered an apology, and published the correct photo.

The next day cars were allowed on the bridge. Precisely at 11 a.m. May 28, dozens of U.S. Navy planes would fly over the Golden Gate Bridge, followed by Navy ships of all sizes — three aircraft carriers, 13 heavy cruisers, six light cruisers and six destroyers — passing underneath the bridge.

On the Marin side of the bridge, a 36-inch tree trunk — the same diameter as the bridge cables — had been laid across the road at the Marin side. Three log-buckers competed using large saws to cut through the barrier the fastest. The winner cut through the tree in less than three minutes.

San Francisco Mayor Angelo Rossi used an acetyline torch to cut the silver chain holding back northbound traffic. And then at noon, with a symbolic button pressing from President Franklin Roosevelt in Washington, D.C., and cannon booms across San Francisco, traffic began to flow from both sides.

“Every foghorn let loose, every liner in dock and stream bore down on its whistle rope, and every horn on the thousands of automobiles lined at the bridge approaches gave throat at once,” The Chronicle reported.

By midnight, 25,000 cars had crossed the bridge — and two days later, the Golden Gate bridge had its first traffic jam. The weather was warm and clear, and thousands jumped into their cars to check out the never-before-seen views on the new bridge. Traffic to enter the San Francisco side was lined up all the way back to Van Ness Avenue. Bridge officials estimated that more than 75,000 cars had gone through the toll gates that Sunday.

Opening day ceremonies at the Golden Gate Bridge include San Francisco Mayor Angelo Rossi using a torch to cut through a chain on May 28, 1937. 
Photo: The Chronicle 1937
More from Chronicle Vault

• Another Bay Bridge? Seventy years of absurd, crazy and downright dumb span plans.

• Big bridge, big stage: Golden Gate Bridge stunts that have shocked the city over the years.

• Not Your Century: 1987 — the GMO Food War Begins.

• Chronicle Covers: If there’s a more San Francisco headline, we’d like to see it.

• The bridge that couldn’t be built: Chronicle archive photos of the Golden Gate Bridge under construction.

